---
layout: home
title: Project Proposal
---
For my topic, I would like to explore “How has books of fiction changed over the years”. In addition to that, I will also “Analyze the movement of the fictional genre over the years”. This was a topic I only recently got the idea to pursue. 

While adding books to Zotero I would say that there were a number of books that were categorized as a fictional genre. I always thought that fictional books were written by non-Caribbean authors, however through my discovery in obtaining many books I came to the realization that many fictional books were in fact written by outstanding Caribbean authors. This realization was very insightful to me. Furthermore, as the project went along, and we began organizing the books on the spreadsheet, I noted all the different titles for the fictional books and wondered to myself how did the authors come up with such names and what exactly was their inspiration for writing those books. 

Hence, I began thinking of doing a topic along those lines of “researching how authors got the inspiration for writing books, however as I contemplated over this, I soon realized that this will take a lot of resources that I probably didn’t have. For this reason, I went back to brainstorming a topic that interest me, was easier to do, and was still along the lines of dealing with the fictional genre. After a few days of thinking I then thought of showing the change of the fictional genre over the years. Furthermore, that topic can also be tied to analyzing the movement of the fictional genre. I believe that researching these two questions for my project can show that small things like a genre of a book can change and spread throughout the world as time passes. 

For this project, I will be using ArcGIS, Twine, and Zotero. Out of all the tools I have learned about I believe that ArcGIS and Twine will be the best suited for it. The reason being is that just showing the audience all the information that I gathered will be very boring and less interesting than if I take the audience on a journey and tell them a story as well as making them interact on what path they are willing to take. In addition to this with the testing I have done with Twine I also believe that I will have a lot of fun in creating this project using this DH tool. I haven’t had any hands-on testing with ArcGIS, but with what Miss Esprit has shown and told us I believe that using this DH tool will be very beneficial to me when I am mapping and showing locations on the map. Finally, I would be using Zotero for having an easy way of citing all of the sources that I would be using while researching and formulating my project.
