---
layout: post
title:  "Semester 2 Week 11: Progress Report"
---

During this week I was finally able to import a gem-based theme and it works relatively well. But of course, there had to be a problem just to ruin my excitement. The theme did import and all the clickable things on the page as working but for some reason, which I can’t figure out for the life of me, some of the images do not want to load. I just decided to still consider the importation of the theme a success and ignore the blank places where the pictures are supposed to be. The next thing I plan to try to work on for Jekyll is to try and see if I can change the info and add new things to the page like pictures or even videos. Furthermore, I started to learn more about Twine and even try to make a story of my base on some other stories I read. Twine so far is mainly just the HTML programming language and some other elements to it. So, I was thankful that I’m an IT major so I already knew some HTML code. But, so far it has not been too difficult to learn and it has been really fun experimenting with all the different things I can do with Twine. Finally, this week I had a one-on-one meeting with Miss Esprit to discuss my project. We talked about the state of my project so far and what my thoughts were going forward with my project. She provided me with very useful information about what direction my project should take and what tools with be useful to me. In addition, she gave me some research material to look at, even in one of her books she wrote, which some parts were about the topic I was researching. So, I found this very helpful in my research going forward.  