---
layout: post
title:  "Year 2 Semester Work"
---

On September 5th, Dr. Esprit gave me my first task on the project to complete. This was making markdown pages for all the authors that did not have them. In making the markdown pages I decided to add the author and the information for their books like Title, Publication date, Language, Publication location, Genre, and Number of Pages first and then add the book images later on. The reason for this was that, since I had quite a lot of author markdown pages to make, I thought it would be faster to add the book images after I made the pages and added the author and their book information. During the first 3 weeks of getting the assignment, progress was very slow and I had a bit of trouble balancing schoolwork and working on the VCL project. Once I saw that my pace in making the markdown pages was very slow I decided to ask one of my colleagues for help to get the work done faster. The work was being done faster with 2 people working on it, but I still found that the progress was pretty slow. Moreover, I should have made a lot more effort to put in more hours into the project to finish the task, which I was entrusted with. In addition, I was not entering some of the information for the books correctly, as I was using the wrong VCL spreadsheet. Hence, moving forward I made sure to check that the information I was entering was correct and started to make the markdown pages a bit quicker. After Dr. Esprit decided to assign all the interns to make author datasheets as this was the task that needed to be completed to handle other tasks. I started to work on this newly assigned task and I found that with everyone doing the same task and a precautionary measure to make sure that there were no duplicates of author datasheets being made this task was completed rather quickly. In the end, there were still a lot of errors being made and Dr. Esprit decided to complete the project on her own with the help of the Create Caribbean staff. Despite not being able to work on the project anymore I still consider this to be a very good experience for me as it showed me that when working on projects communication is key and it is also very important to manage your time to allocate enough time to be able to complete the project. I started working with my community partner on October 18th. The community partner I was assigned was the Public Library. With the creole season, the project they were currently working on was put on hold, hence they did not have any immediate assignments for me to do. However, instead of making me doing nothing, I was taught how to process books into their system, making barcodes for the books and labeling the books according to age grouping. So far working with the Library has been relaxing and interesting seeing how they operate there day to day operations.