---
layout: post
title:  "Semester 2 Week 10: Progress Report"
---

During the Tech Team meeting, Miss Esprit asked the members what 2 tools we were most interested in learning so was we could work on learning and mastering those tools to help other members of Create if they ever have a problem with those tools. The tools I choose to learn were the Liquid/Jekyll and Twine. I peeked at these two tools because it was the most interesting for me when I was learning them for the first time, hence I wanted to learn more about them. I began to learn the tool as soon as I had time on my hands and they were must vaster than I first thought. Just like any other programming tool, Jekyll had a whole bunch of rules to follow and many features to experiment with. Just like most people I found the best way for me to learn the tool than just reading up on it was to do my little experiments with them. Hence, I started to experiment with the features Jekyll provides. Making posts, and adding pictures and links to those posts was quite easy and I learned quickly. What was difficult for me for some reason was importing a pre-built theme from the internet. If you are confused, Jekyll's pages are based on a theme or a type of layout. The basic theme for Jekyll is a gem-based theme called minima and every time a new Jekyll page is made it comes with this theme. The design is plain but I will say it is easy to look at and understand where everything is located on the page with this theme. Anyways, you could use an entirely new theme than the minima theme or you could just modify it. As I said early importing a new theme was my problem. Some themes would work to some extent and others would just not work. I plan to continue researching my problem and hope that I get it properly soon.